[Web of Science, previously known as Web of Knowledge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_of_Science) "is an online subscription-based scientific citation indexing service originally produced by the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI), now maintained by Clarivate Analytics (previously the Intellectual Property and Science business of Thomson Reuters), that provides a comprehensive citation search. It gives access to multiple databases that reference cross-disciplinary research, which allows for in-depth exploration of specialized sub-fields within an academic or scientific discipline."

Web of Science (WoS) data is leased to organizations by Clarivate and is typically made available as a collection of XML files. The procedure we use to store these data involves splitting each XML file into smaller XML files of 20,000 records each and then feeding the split XML files to the WoS XML parser, which extracts the elements of interest and loads them into 9 csv files. These are loaded into PostgreSQL tables using a loading script in the parser. A shell script is used to manage the splitting and parsing. Initially, the entire dataset is loaded (takes about a month) using these codes. Subsequently, weekly updates (accessed by ftp from Clarivate) are similarly processed. A separate process in PostgreSQL then reconciles the update with the existing data by adding, deleting or modifying individual records. 

The current version of the parser can be found in the WoS_XML_parser folder along with a sample shell script and an XML file splitter. Some programming experience and legal copies of the Web of Science XML data will be needed to make use of these scripts. 

The motivation to share this code stems from an experience some years ago in another life when one of us leased WoS data for his office and asked for advice from a contractor who had successfully implemented it for a research institute. Even very high-level advice was rather discourteously refused so we shrugged, vowed to write our own code, and share it freely (of course we believe in Open Source anyway). In any case, we hope that these scripts will be useful to others. The parsing and splitting scripts were designed and written by Shixin Jiang with help from Lingtian Wan. Samet Keserci and George Chacko added some annotations. Due to limited resources, we won't be able to respond to user queries in a timely manner but please feel free to register issues. No warranties of any kind are offered- the code is being distributed under the MIT License. Good luck! 
